>> Shirley Wu: And once we've talked about
marks and channels, another thing that I
want to talk a little bit about is this
thing called Gestalt Laws of Grouping.
So apparently Gestalt is German for
patterns.
So I think something that came out,
I think, in either the 60s or
maybe earlier than that.
That's kind of looking into
the psychology of how the human
mind just naturally groups
individual elements into patterns.
And there is,
one of the books that'll I'll recommend
later called The Functional Art
by Alberto Cairo.
He has a really great section
talking about how to use these
Gestalt Laws to our advantage.
And in particular,
how to use them in data visualization to
help your readers save processing time.
Because these are the things that
our brains already naturally do.
So utilizing them in the right context to
help them read our visualizations easier.
And so there's, I think, six of them.
But I think we'll only talk about
three of them today that I think
are the most relevant to us
as we design visualizations.
And so the first of them are proximity.
And so proximity,
that's pretty straightforward.
Proximity is that we tend to
see things that are near to each
other as being in the same group.
And so Alberto's recommendation
is just to put related
objects near to each other.
>> Shirley Wu: To
kind of emphasize that natural grouping.
The second one is similarity.
So the same looking objects
will appear like they are in a group or
we'll process them as being in a group.
And so you can use this to
indicate similar things.
And this is especially helpful
if those things can't be
placed close to each other.
Like, perhaps you've already used
the proximity thing to highlight some
other sort of natural grouping, that maybe
are a little more high in importance.
But then you'll also want to indicate
this other sort of natural grouping, and
maybe you will put that similarly.
For example, these kind of bar
charts are a great example.
So it seems like there's already
one sort of natural grouping here.
Maybe these are, I don't know, years or
something that's naturally grouped by it.
And then the colors though,
you know that those colors,
the bars with the same colors probably
belong to the same category of something.
So, really,
the similarity is really helpful in
conjuntion with proximity to indicate
these two different kinds of groups.
>> Shirley Wu: And
the other example here is
if you have geography.
If you have a map, then proximity
is not something that you can use,
because you know,
maps have position already encoded in it.
So maybe using colors or textures or some
other way to indicate the same thing is
a great way to indicate groupings
>> Shirley Wu: And
the last one I wanna say,
is this thing called enclosure,
which just means that
our brains will tend to,
if you box a certain part, or
if you just give some shading.
We'll think of that as somehow
related to each other.
Our brains would just go naturally
towards those sections and
think they're related to each other.
So this is kind of helpful for
creating visualizations that have
maybe multiple sections that
should be paid attention to.
So these are the Gestalt Laws of Grouping.
I like to think of them as if marks and
channels are kind of the primary way
to describe our data, then maybe these
Gestalt Laws of Grouping can help us
give the context around that data.
Kind of give it that secondary
layer of information that
maybe can't be mapped to individual marks.
Maybe they aren't to describe
individual data points, but
rather to describe groups of those data
points together, those marks together.
So that's the way that I like to
think about these to kind of give.
I think they are really great for
helping give context.